Wilkinson: Injuries toughened me

England skipper Jonny Wilkinson insists his battle with injuries during 2004 has toughened him up mentally.

The fly-half returned to action for Newcastle in their 13-10 Heineken Cup win at Edinburgh at the weekend after seven weeks out with a bicep problem. Wilkinson, who also endured an eight-month lay-off with a shoulder injury, said: "I was physically prepared for my first return but mentally it was hard. "But having had this little time out since then I feel mentally stronger." The 25-year-old, who has not played for England since drop-kicking his country to World Cup glory in November 2003, also admits he may have rushed his initial comeback in September.

Wilkinson says he does not plan to push himself too far too fast this time around. "No-one can prepare you for what it's like to come back after basically an entire season out injured," Wilkinson added. "The first time round, I'd done all the training and was more motivated than I've ever been.

"But sometimes that was met with disappointment after a few of the games, wondering why things were not working out when I thought I'd done all the right things in preparation. "I think that's what I've changed this time, trying to be a bit more realistic about coming back. "I'm not in any way less ambitious - but I just understand that I should get on with it and enjoy it." Wilkinson also praised Dave Walder, who has been filling in for him for the Falcons. And he said the experience of starting a game on the bench - as happened against Edinburgh - has made him more appreciative of the role of replacement players. "I hated the experience of being on the bench," Wilkinson said. "But what it's done is given me enormous respect and admiration for players who can do that on a regular basis, and Dave Walder has been playing well in the team - so I have to accept it.

"To be an effective replacement is a skill in itself, and some of our players are fantastic at it. "When you start the game you're fully involved, and you react to each second as it goes by - whereas as a replacement you have to watch the game tick by and then almost instantly switch on and join in when everyone else has had time to bed themselves into the match. "It's so difficult, especially in a decision-making role - which is something our scrum halves, Hall Charlton and James Grindal, do on a regular basis to good effect."
